[docs] Add a guide on Configuring JS Engines (#21131)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/configuring-js-engines.mdx

---
title: Configuring JS Engines

> sidebar_title: Configuring JS Engines

Author: Thanks for the review, updated

description: A guide on configuring JS Engines for both Android and iOS in an Expo project.
---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> JavaScript engines are responsible for executing your application code and providing various features like memory management, optimization, and error handling. Expo projects, by default, use [Hermes](https://hermesengine.dev/) as the JavaScript engine (in SDK 47 and lower, the default was JSC). It is also possible to switch to other engines like JSC or V8 for both Android and iOS platforms, but not for web because the JavaScript engine is included in the web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript engines execute your application code and provide various features such as memory management, optimization, and error handling. By default, Expo projects use [Hermes](https://hermesengine.dev/) as the JavaScript engine (in SDK 47 and lower, the default was [JavaScriptCore]((https://developer.apple.com/documentation/javascriptcore)). Switching to other engines, such as JSC or V8, for Android and iOS platforms is possible. However, not for the web because the JavaScript engine is included in the web browser.
```

Reviewer: Changing from JSC to JavaScriptCore since this is the first time we are introducing that term on this page. 

Also, adding the link here because the term is referenced here for the first time. In general, that's a good practice.

Reviewer 2: It would be also nice to add `JavaScriptCore` to our case police dict.

Reviewer: Yes, great suggestion! I'll add it to the dict list.

> ### Configuring the `jsEngine` through Expo config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring the `jsEngine` through Expo config
```

[In general, as per our writing style guide, top level headings on a page should start from H2](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#headings).

> We recommend Hermes because it is purpose built and optimized for React Native apps, and it has the best debugging experience. If you are familiar with the tradeoffs of different JavaScript engines and would like to change away from Hermes, the `jsEngine` field inside **app.json** allows you to specify the JavaScript engine for your app.
> 
> The default value is `hermes`. If you would like to use [JavaScriptCore](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/javascriptcore) instead, set the `jsEngine` field in your **app.json**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend Hermes because it is purpose built and optimized for React Native apps, and it has the best debugging experience. If you are familiar with the tradeoffs of different JavaScript engines and would like to change away from Hermes, the [`jsEngine`](/versions/latest/config/app/#jsengine) field inside [Expo config](/workflow/configuration/) allows you to specify the JavaScript engine for your app. The default value is `hermes`. 

If you want to use JSC instead, set the `jsEngine` field in the Expo config:
```

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json app.json
```

{
  "expo": {
    "jsEngine": "jsc"
  }
}
```

<Collapsible summary="Are you using the bare workflow?">

> To change the JavaScript engine in a bare React Native project, update the `expo.jsEngine` value in **ios/Podfile.properties.json** and **android/gradle.properties**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the JavaScript engine in a bare React Native project, update the `expo.jsEngine` value in **android/gradle.properties** and **ios/Podfile.properties.json**.
```

[As per our writing style guide, we reference Android first.](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#referencing-android-ios-and-web) Let's update this too.

</Collapsible>

It's important to highlight that changing the JS engine will require you to recompile development builds with `eas build` to work properly.

> ### Using the V8 Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the V8 Engine
```

> To use the V8 engine, you need to install [react-native-v8](https://github.com/Kudo/react-native-v8), an opt-in package that adds V8 runtime support for React Native. You can install it by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the V8 engine, you need to install [`react-native-v8`](https://github.com/Kudo/react-native-v8), an opt-in package that adds V8 runtime support for React Native. You can install it by running the following command:
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install react-native-v8 v8-android-jit']} />

> Make sure to remove the `jsEngine` field from **app.json**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to remove the `jsEngine` field from the Expo config.
```

<Collapsible summary="Are you using the bare workflow?">

You can run `expo prebuild -p android --clean` after the installation to prebuild again.

</Collapsible>

> ### Switch JavaScript engine on a specific platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Switch JavaScript engine on a specific platform
```

> You may want to use a different engine on one specific platform, one way to do this is to set one `"jsEngine"` value at the top level and then override it with a different value under the `"android"`/`"ios"` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a different engine on one specific platform, you can set `the "jsEngine"` value at the top level and then override it with a different value under `the "android"` or `"ios"` key. The value specified for the platform will take precedence over the common field.
```

Let's be descriptive about what the overriding value can do here. I see that you have highlighted it in the example already 👍 So thought we should add it here too.

We can also be more opinionated about the way we want developers to do things. For example, I removed the "one way to do..." context. This provides a vote of confidence from us (the Expo team) on how to do things in a general scenario.

Author: Thanks for rephrasing this Aman, let me just confirm one thing with you, do we want to put

{/* prettier-ignore */}

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js app.json
```
